# What is an IP address?

An IP address is a set of numbers used to assign a device within a network a unique address. You can use street addresses as an analogy for IP addresses. Let's say I have two friends who live adjacent to each other in the same neighborhood: Allison and Brennan. Allison's address is 1234 Kanaloa St. and Brennan's address is 1235 Kanaloa St. If I wanted to send a letter to Brennan, I would use his street address as the location. However, there was some mistake in how the houses were addressed and both Allison and Brennan have the exact same street address (1234 Kanaloa St.). The mailman would probably be confused and not know which house my letter is supposed to go to. In computer networking, IP addresses are the street addresses and Allison and Brennan are two different computers in a network. Two computers must have different IP addresses otherwise there would be an *IP Conflict* and both devices may not be able to communicate with other devices within the network. When the mailman got confused on who my letter (data) is supposed to go to, that was due to an IP conflict. 

An IP address is in the form of xx.xx.xx.xx where xx can be a number from 1-255. It does not really matter right now, but there is a convention used for IP addresses to provide information on what type of network it is and how large the network is: ([IP Classes](https://www.computerhope.com/jargon/i/ip.htm)). The last number is called the **host** number, the numbers before the host number is called the **subnet** which will be the next topic. 


## Example

Device A has an IP address of 10.10.10.4 while device B has an IP address of 10.10.10.20. A third device, device C, has an IP address of 10.10.10.33 and can send a message to both device A and device B. Notice how the last digit is a unique number for each device. If device A and device B had the same IP address---let's say 10.10.10.4---and device C wanted to send data ONLY to device B, then it wouldn't know how to send the data to it. As a matter of fact, if there is an IP conflict in a network, the devices involved in the conflict may not be able to communicate to other devices in the network at all and vice versa. 
